# usl-game

A web based game to teach children sign language alphabet

## Backend

We're using Google's Firebase for the backend. The database is a Firestore
database.

### Database Structure or Schema

We have two collections in the database: `players` and `sessions`. The `players`
collection stores the user's game information and the `sessions` collection
stores the user's session information like duration played, login times, logout
times, etc.

#### players

```
{
    name: string,
    age: number,
    gender: string,
    badges: array,
    id: string, // this is auto-generated by Firebase so don't pass it during creation of a new player or update
    createdAt: timestamp/Date, // UNIX timestamp since epoch
    updatedAt: timestamp/Date, // UNIX timestamp since epoch
}
```

#### sessions

```
{
    id: string,
    playerId: string,
    levelStartedAt: timestamp,
    levelEndedAt: timestamp,
    durationPlayed: number,
    scores: string, // stored as JSON string that resolves to array of arrays of integers e.g. [[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6], [7, 8, 9]]
}
```

## For Developers

**NOTE**: We are using `npm` as the package manager. Make sure you have `npm` installed on your system. We're aware of other package managers like `yarn` or `pnpm` but we're using `npm` for this project :).

### Install dependencies

To install the dependencies, run the following command:

```bash
npm install
```

### Formatting the code

We're using `prettier` to format the code. You can run the following command to
format the code:

```bash
npm run format
```

### Running in development mode

To run the project in development mode, run the following command:

```bash
npm run watch
```

### Make final build

To make the final build, run the following command:

```bash
npm run build
```

This will create a `dist` directory with the final build.

**NOTE**: The backend expects all the data it receives to be in the format
specified above. We've not included deletion of users or sessions in the
backend. We're assuming that the user will not be deleted from the database.
**All data is stored in the database permanently**.
